# FilterP

Backend REST API built with Spring Boot, implementing JWT authentication, image storage via Cloudinary, and PostgreSQL database integration deployed on Render.

Idea behind the project
--
`Filtering potential groom/bride based on their criminal activities(if found any posted by users).`



## Features:
 * JWT based authentication using Spring security.
 * Secure CRUD operations for user posts.
 * Filtering and pagination for efficient data retrieval.
 * DTO validation for user inputs and request body
 * Global Exceptional Handling
 * Cloud based image storage system using Cloudinary.
 * REST API design following layered architecture.
 * Database integration using PostgreSQL deployed using Render.
 * API testing performed using Postman.

## Tech Stack
- Java
- Frameworks: SpringBoot, Spring Security.
- JWT Authentication
- Hibernate/JPA
- PostgreSQL
- Maven
- Cloudinary(Cloud based media storage)
- Render(DB hosting and deployment)
- Postman(API testing)

## Project Architecture
This project follows the layered architecture which separates the concerns.

```
Client Request
      │
      ▼
Controller Layer
(Handles HTTP requests and validates input)
      │
      ▼
Service Layer
(Business logic, authentication checks, processing)
      │
      ├──────────────► Cloudinary
      │                (Stores user uploaded images/videos)
      │                │
      │                ▼
      │            Returns secure media URL
      │
      ▼
Repository Layer
(Handles database operations using JPA/Hibernate)
      │
      ▼
PostgreSQL Database
(Persistent storage for users, posts, and metadata)
(either stored locally in your system postgresql databse or in website like Render)
```
                                              
This helped in maintaining code structure and separation of concerns.

## Setup Instructions

1. Clone the Repository
   ` git clone https:github.com.navaneethkrishnap/FilterP.git `
2. Setup the Postgresql Database
   
   1. Setting up through locally installed database
      - Download PostgreSQL engine and PgAdmin. Set them up
      - Open a server and create a database
      - Get a username and passoword along with name of the database and fill them in the URL for environment variables or .env file.
        ` jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/db-name `
     
    2. Setting up through Render
       - Go to the  `https://render.com/` website
       - create a account and open a new postgresql service (go for free service)
       - set up database name, database username. (Password and other things like hostname will be automatically generated by the Render service)
       - Use the Host name generated by the service in the database URL in environment variables or .env files.
       - Use the database name(not unique database name), username and password(generated by the Render service) in Environment variables or .env files.
         ` jdbc:postgresql://xxxxxxxx.render.com:5432/db-name `

 3. Cloudinary Setup for storing images uploaded by the user
    - Go to `Cloudinary.com`
    - create a account in website
    - You get API key, API Secret Key and Cloud name automatically
    - Use the API Key, API Secret key and Cloud name in .env files or environment variables.

 4. Set up Secret Key(you can write anything) and Expiration Date(use 86400000) of JWT Authentication and save it in environment variables or .env files.
 5. Set up all the environment Variables and check thoroughly once everything is correct.
 6. Run the application.

    Server will start on ` http://localhost:8080 ` 


## API Testing 
All API endpoints were tested using Postman to verify authentication, request validation and endpoint functionality.

#### Note: 
`Login endpoint returns a JWT token that must be included in the 'Authorization' headers for endpoints that are protected`

Example:
Authorization: Bearer <JWT_TOKEN> 

## API Endpoints

```

Authentication
POST /auth/register
POST /auth/login

Posts
GET /posts?page=0&size=10
GET /posts/{id}
DELETE /posts/{id}

Filtering
GET /posts/filter?page=0&size=10

User
POST users/post
PUT users/posts/{id}
PUT users/me
GET users/{username}
DELETE users/{username}
GET users/posts

```

## Future Improvements

- Frontend integration
- Docker containerization
- API documentation using Swagger / OpenAPI
- Role-based authorization

` Author: Navaneeth Krishna P `
